SUTRASET is extended USGS SUTRA code considering seepage(S), evaporation(E) and tidal forces(T)

The pecific processes that the code considers on top of SUTRA are:

  1. the reduction of evaporation induced by water desaturation on the surface
  2. the reduction of evaporation due to increase to solute concentration
  3. the reduction of evaporation due to salt precipitation on the surface as crust
  4. the removal of residual liquid water due to evaporation (by extending SWCC and Kr function below residual liquid water saturation)
  5. evaporation taking water away with salt remain in the soils
  6. a dynamic soil surface boundary conditions with three phases (1. Hydrostatic pressure boundary for water submerged surfaces, 2. Seepage for saturated soil surface above water level, 3 evaporation for unsaturated soil surface above water level). These three phases are determined using non-linear iterations to avoid phase lag (water spraying truck effect!).

Vapour flow is not considered in SUTRASET

  
Examples:
the result of a 1-D calibration case considering evaporation from a soil column with a saline water table at the bottom:

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ny3e0dCjsOM 

the case is available at examples/Fujimaki/MassarLoamy and /examples/Fujimaki/Toyoura


The mathematical explanation is given in the paper:
Shen, C., Zhang, C., Xin, P., Kong, J., & Li, L. (2018). Salt Dynamics in Coastal Marshes: Formation of Hypersaline Zones. Water Resources Research, 1–18. https://doi.org/10.1029/2017WR022021



The result of a 2-D case considering tide, evaporation in coastal wetland
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=y01Bo0dyTFE
the case is available at examples/evaporation_salt_marsh/sandyloam_evt4


How to use the code:

under UNIX environment where gfortran is available.
issue the following command

git clone https://github.com/chenmingzhang/sutraset
cd sutraset/src
make 
make all

you will have sutraset_gf compiled in the src folder

under windows environment after downloading the package, creat a file called gversion.f90 with following content

SUBROUTINE GVERSION (K3)
  WRITE (K3,*) "this is not git controlled "
      RETURN
END SUBROUTINE



GENERAL NOTICE
1. it is noticed that choosing a normal compressbility for matrix and
liquid would cause error, if liquid water saturation is low. this is 
because liquid water pressure can reduced down to 1e-11 pa, if this 
pressure multiplies a storativity 1e-4. There is large amount
of water in unsaturated zone.

2. There is a issue on bcop output. specifically, terms associated with
pressure are calulated based on current time step i.e., qin=gnup(pbs-pvec), which terms
associated with concentration are calculated based on the previous time step. i.e., 
qinc=gnup(bps-piter). This may cause non-consistency at one step when pbc is experiencing
significant change. also this is the reason why solute mass balance in fort.21 is not 
correct. (but water mass is excellent!)

3. a set of parameters that can properly simulate salt precipitation
'FREUNDLICH' 1.D-47 0.05
it is been tested for simulation over 120 days using Peva. as 15mm/day
it is found that 
'FREUNDLICH' 2.D-45 0.05 
can properly approximate solid2000, but the curve is too steep at the end so 
artifitial evaporation spike may occur

4. When applied evaporation rate is above 8mm/day, artificial 
recharge could occur when tide retrieve in which a recharge moves all the way up to the supratidal zone. 
The way of preventing such recharge is to ensure nonlinear iteration is enabled.

